Fixes to improve the tutorials for onboarding new developers (#1363)
dfinity/portal: docs/tutorials/deploy_sample_app.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Deploy your first dapp in 5 minutes
---
# Deploy your first ICP dapp in 5 minutes

## 1. Introduction

This is a quick tutorial to deploy a "Hello World" dapp to the Internet Computer (IC) in 5 minutes or less. Deployment of the dapp only requires basic knowledge of using a terminal. 

Before starting, take a look at a version of this dapp running on-chain: https://jqylk-byaaa-aaaal-qbymq-cai.icp0.io/

This dapp only does one thing: it accepts an text input and returns text input.

![Hello](_attachments/hello-dapp-intro.png)

## 1. Install the canister smart contract SDK 

> This tutorial use a Canister SDK called `dfx`, which is the default SDK maintained by the DFINITY foundation. 

Author: "S" stands for "software" doesnt it?

dfx --version
```

### Requirements

* Node.js - This tutorial works best with a node.js version higher than `16.*.*`.

## 2. Create a project

A `dfx` project is a set of artifacts, including source code and configuration files, that can be compiled to a canister smart contract. By running 

``` bash
dfx new hello
cd hello
dfx start
```

-   The `dfx new hello` command created a new project called `hello` in your local machine
-   `cd hello` navigates your terminal into the newly-created `hello` project
-   `dfx start` starts a local instance of the IC to test and deploy too

:::note

-   Depending on your platform and local security settings, you might see a warning displayed. If you are prompted to allow or deny incoming network connections, click "Allow."

:::

**🎉 Congratulations! 🎉 **

There is now a local Instance of the execution environment of the IC running on your machine! Leave this window/tab running while you continue so the tutorial can continue without issues.

## 3. Deploy the dapp locally

> In a new terminal window, navigate to the root directory `hello` project, then run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a new terminal window, navigate to the root directory `hello` project, and then run:
```
I think it's too easy to skim over the need for two windows with this phrasing.

Alternatively: @ericswanson-dfinity Do we still need to advocate for the two-window approach? I don't think I've ever used `dfx start` instead of `dfx start --background` once this year.

Author: Good point. Maybe it should be `dfx start --background`

  /index.js.LICENSE.txt (gzip) 1/1 (273 bytes) sha db89b3ccdfe399f8ef3135c0b076326a0ae9e1c96409f79f8e686031537c572c (with 7 headers)
  /index.js (gzip) 1/1 (88325 bytes) sha 37809370db58979a0bd92a68eb403eb06f9314748862376e2b4ac2d6d171e631 (with 7 headers)
  /main.css (gzip) 1/1 (299 bytes) sha b4879e7ba34e68b2965d626e48d772ce615e4f6b78b69cc8f2f91127ed18b850 (with 7 headers)
  /index.html 1/1 (539 bytes) sha 053f9dc1283c64d114d43cbf03b0b0062afae08a04a5044ae58dbc68f4a1f93f (with 7 headers)
  /index.js 1/1 (246603 bytes) sha 0de3c2e257ca0ac85423b3e4c7dc0a3aeb8906b73e3b72e47924ed6e80247406 (with 7 headers)
Committing batch.
Deployed canisters.
URLs:
  Frontend canister via browser
    hello_frontend: https://jqylk-byaaa-aaaal-qbymq-cai.icp0.io/
  Backend canister via Candid interface:
    hello_backend: https://a4gq6-oaaaa-aaaab-qaa4q-cai.raw.icp0.io/?id=jxzn6-maaaa-aaaal-qbyma-cai
```

Note the bottom of the message which returns the URL where you can see your canister’s frontend deployed on-chain: <https://jqylk-byaaa-aaaal-qbymq-cai.icp0.io/>

### 🎉 Success, you are done! 🎉

> ### You have successfully deployed your dapp on-chain

Reviewer: Should both of these be headings?

Author: not really, i just wanted them to pop. they were originally bold, but i thought it was not big enough. you caught me :)

Author: fixed

:::note

Before your dapp loads, your browser will quickly show a message that reads: Installing "Internet Computer Validating Service Worker". This [service worker](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/workbox/service-worker-overview/) comes from the ICP network and it is used to make sure the web app the user sees is the correct, untampered frontend. Once loaded, your browser will cache the service worker and your web app will load much quicker.
:::

## 5. Wrap-up

You have built a dapp fully on-chain (both backend and frontend).

Tutorial takeaways:

> -   Dapps can be composed of multiple canistersm backend and frontend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Dapps can be composed of multiple canisters, backend and frontend
```
